Good morning.
We're all here bright and early.
Welcome to session 923,
Mastering Interface Builder.
I'm Matt Gamble, an engineer on the
Interface Builder team,
and I'll be joined on stage later
by Jon Hess and Kevin Cathey.
Today we're going to take you through
some of the new features and some of
the tips and tricks that you can use
to be more productive working with your
user interfaces using Interface Builder.
I'm going to take you
through exploring interfaces,
some of the new features,
and some features that you might not have
known about for making navigating and
exploring your interfaces a lot easier.
Now I'm going to touch on
four different topics today.
The first for exploring objects,
we have the contextual navigation menu,
which shows you all the various
objects that are currently
under the mouse cursor.
The second is exploring connections
using the connections panel.
Baird will be exploring classes
using either the documentation or the
interface for the selected object.
And finally,
exploring the localizable strings of
your document using the new Strings tool.
So if we could switch
over to the demo machine,
let's get right into it.
Now you've probably all been in
a situation where you've been
either the newest member of a
team or perhaps you've just had an
existing project land in your lap.
And either way you end up with a
user interface that you've never
seen before that you have to
explore and find out what's in it,
how things work,
how everything's connected.
So that's exactly what
we're going to do today.
We have a simple little image editing
application that has a couple of
filters that you can use to adjust
various attributes of the image.
So we're going to take a look at the
UI for this application and try to
figure out how things are connected,
what's in the UI,
and what steps we would need to
take in order to enhance this
application or add a new feature.
So I'm just going to
quit this application.
And here we are in the Xcode
project for this application.
And we can see that in
the resources section,
we have our main menu ZIP.
So I'm going to double click this
to open it in Interface Builder.
So the first step that we want to take
is to explore some of the different
pieces that made up that UI that
we saw in the running application.
And probably a good place to
start was that main window.
So let's take a look
in our document window.
And we can see that
there's this Canvas window.
So I'll double click this to
open it up in Interface Builder.
And so here we have the main window
that we saw in that application.
Now granted,
we know that there's a window here.
And when the application was running,
we saw that there was an image that
wasn't this icon that was in the center.
So it seems like there might be
a bunch of different things going
on just in this little piece
of UI that we have right here.
Now something that we can use to get
a better understanding of what makes
up this piece of user interface is to
use the contextual navigation menu.
To activate the contextual
navigation menu,
you simply hold the shift key
and then right-click on what
you're planning to investigate.
Now we can see that we have a
menu that shows us all the various
pieces of UI that are underneath
the mouse at this current time.
So we can see that we
have the Canvas window,
the content view of the Canvas window.
Oh, okay,
we can see there's a scroll view there,
which we hadn't seen before.
Might not have known that was there.
There's also a Canvas view of some sort,
the image view,
which was displaying the image,
and the cell of the image view.
So let's take a look at
this bordered scroll view.
In addition to showing us all the
various objects that are under the mouse,
it will also allow us to
navigate over to those objects,
some of which might have been
hard to select otherwise.
So I can simply select
this item in the menu.
And then we can see that the focus of the
inspector has changed to the scroll view.
Okay,
I can see why we couldn't see it before.
We had the horizontal and
vertical scrollers turned off.
So if I turn those guys on, all right,
that makes it a little more
obvious that that's there.
So probably won't be
as confused next time.
This is a great way to explore
the various objects that
you have in your document,
and especially when you have a case
similar to the one that we had here where
you have some elements that are obscuring
other elements in your user interface.
I know that I've used this a lot when
perhaps I have views that are hidden
right now that will then be added
and unhidden programmatically through
animations or various things like this.
A lot of times these elements overlap,
they're tough to see,
and so this contextual navigation
menu gives you a great way to
take a look at all of those.
Well,
the next thing we probably want to do
is get a better understanding of how the
various pieces of this UI are connected.
And to do that,
we could go to the Connections
panel of the Inspector,
which you probably saw if you
were on the session on Tuesday.
But what we could also do is we could
right-click in the document window
on this My Image Editor controller,
and this will bring up
the Connections panel.
The Connections Panel shows all
the various connections that
are incoming and outgoing that
involve the selected object.
At the top, there is a section of all
the different outlets of this
object that are connected.
We can see the received actions
that are connected as well.
We also,
something that you might not have
seen before is this binding section.
In this case, the referencing bindings,
which are the Cocoa bindings between
the image property of the focused
object and this value property of
what looks like the image view.
And this final section down
here is the referencing outlets.
So not only can we see the outlets
that are defined for this object,
but we can also see outlets that are
defined for the other objects that
are then connected to this object.
So we can see both directions very
easily in the connections panel.
Now, if I select this connection here,
we can see that this is the
binding between the image and the
value property of the image view.
Selecting this,
you can then see that it's highlighted,
and there's a path control
that's appeared at the bottom.
Now, this path control will show you the
hierarchy from a top-level object
all the way down to the object on
the opposite end of this connection.
So we can see,
similarly to how we saw with
the contextual navigation menu,
we again see the Canvas window,
the Canvas window's content view,
the scroll view that we can now
see a little bit more easily,
the Canvas view,
and then again the image view,
which is the other end of the connection.
So this can make it a lot easier
to see what you are connecting to.
to get a better understanding of
how these objects are related.
Now finally, if we take a look at this
Adjust Hue connection in
the Connections panel,
you can see that when it was selected,
there's a little arrow that might
be a little bit tough to see
for those of you in the back,
but next to the connection well,
there appeared a little arrow,
which is the refocusing arrow,
which now allows us,
if I click this arrow,
the Connections panel will
then change to refocus on the
other end of that connection,
which in this case would be
the Adjust Hue toolbar item.
So if I click this, refocus,
we can see that now it's
focused on the toolbar item,
and the sent actions is connected to
the Adjust Hue action of our controller.
So this can be a great way to
navigate around to get a better
understanding of how the different
objects are connected by simply
staying in the same Connections panel.
I also find that this is very
useful when you want to make a
bunch of different connections to
some objects in your user interface.
So you can simply open
the connections panel,
start making connections right
next to where they actually
are rather than coming all the
way over from the inspector.
And then once you've
made a few connections,
you can start navigating through the
panel to the other objects and then
make subsequent connections as well.
[Transcript missing]
We can see that Xcode has opened up the
interface for this object and we can take
a look at all the various properties.
We could add any
IB outlets that we wanted,
any IB actions,
then quickly go right back to
Interface Builder and they'd
all be there for us to connect.
So this can be a much
easier way to navigate.
I'm going to close this window and
return over to Interface Builder.
And similarly,
I said that we also have the
documentation for selection.
So if I select this
scroll view right here,
and the same way that we would in Xcode
if we wanted to do the same thing,
we'd hold the option button
and then double click.
It's not being agreeable today.
You can always use the menu item,
click the documentation for selection,
and we go over and we
can see it right here.
This can be an easy way to gain a
better understanding of and make use
of the great documentation that we
have for all these various classes.
Now the one final thing that I'd mention,
switching back over to Interface Builder,
I mentioned that we could take a
look at some of the strings using
a new feature in Interface Builder.
Now in this case,
we've been looking around and we could
see that it's especially obvious in the
menu when the application was running.
We saw that everything had that
My Application or that generic
name that we get when we use
one of the templates in Xcode.
So now that this project is ours,
we want to make it a
little bit more personal.
We probably want to change that.
Well,
an easy way to do that is to go to the
Tools menu and open the Strings tool.
So here we can see all the
localizable strings in any of the
open documents in Interface Builder.
You can then refocus it to particular
documents or keep it on all of them.
And in addition to filtering,
we can also go to the Edit menu and find.
And we see that we can
now find any string,
any localizable string,
in any of the open documents
in Interface Builder.
So in this case, that new application
is not fantastic,
so let's get rid of that.
So by finding, we can see that it
selects the first match,
and I can toggle through the matches,
same as I would with any other find.
But what I can also do in this case that
will help us out a lot is I can change
the find pop-up to find and replace,
and change this to image editor,
and then simply do a replace all.
This will replace all the instances
of new application with image editor.
and great, there we go.
So when Kevin does his demo later,
we won't have that awful my application
or new application name in there.
So you can see this can be a great
way to not just take a look at the
localizable strings in your document,
but also a way to make large changes
across many different nibs that
you have open in Interface Builder.
So it can be very handy.
So if we could switch back to the slides.
Let's just go over quickly
a few of the things that we
touched on during that last demo.
First of all, we talked about the
contextual navigation menu.
We mentioned how it shows the
hierarchy of all the objects that
are currently under the mouse,
which can be great for navigating
and can be particularly useful for
discovering some objects that might have
been obscured by other pieces of our UI.
So it allows quick
navigation and selection.
We also mentioned the connections
panel which displays all the different
connections to the selected objects,
IB outlets and IB actions.
We also saw that it
includes Cocoa bindings,
both incoming and outgoing.
It also includes all the different
connections that reference the selection,
so we have both the incoming
and the outgoing connections.
We also saw that we now have a
path control in the bottom that
shows the hierarchy of the opposite
endpoint of the selected connection.
So we can get a better
understanding of where this
object is in our user interface.
And then finally,
we saw that we could refocus
the connections panel by simply
clicking the refocus arrow,
not having to open yet another
panel by clicking another object
at a different part of our UI.
This makes it a lot quicker to
change the focus of the connections
panel and get a better understanding
of how our objects are connected.
We also saw the Jump to
Interface feature,
which allows us to jump to the interface
declaration for the selected object,
and just like in Xcode,
we can just hold the command
key and double click.
and we also saw that we could do
the documentation in the same manner
and hopefully you'll have better
luck with the option key than I did.
and finally the Strings tool,
which allows us to view all
the localizable strings in
any of the open documents that
we have in Interface Builder.
also allows us to edit the
strings directly in the table
so we don't have to click on the
object and go to the inspector.
You can also check spelling.
You probably saw the red squiggly lines
that were under some of the pieces,
some of the strings
that were in the table.
You can then filter down, you can find,
and as we saw,
you can find and replace across any of
the open documents in Interface Builder.
and also something I didn't show is if
you can double click one of the sections
of the table that is not the value that
you would change and it'll actually open
it in Interface Builder for editing.
So we've taken a look at exploring
our interface through exploring the
different objects that make up our UI,
as well as how they're connected
and some of the strings and other
ways that we can get a better
understanding of what makes up our UI.
But we should now-- let's delve a little
bit deeper into what are these Interface
Builder documents and how do they work?
And to do that,
I'd like to invite Jon Hess on stage.
and I are going to explain how the
interfaces you design in IB go from
objects in the library to objects
in your document to interface
elements in your running application.
So what are some of the
objects in an interface?
What composes a nib file or something
you design in Interface Builder?
There's objects.
There's proxy objects that
we're going to talk about.
The files owner and the first responder
are two of them in particular.
There's class information that you might
type into Interface Builder manually or
that's going to come across from Xcode.
And there's connections that you drag
between the objects in your interface.
So how are the objects in
Interface Builder created?
Just what happens when you go to the
library and you grab a hold of a push
button and drag it into your interface?
You might have assumed that Interface
Builder was working with something
like a work-alike of a button,
something that looked like a button
but was editable in Interface Builder.
Actually, Interface Builder just
uses regular buttons,
and it does all the same sort
of things that you would do.
So when you drag a button from
Interface Builder's library
into your running application,
we do just the same
thing that you would do.
We allocate and instantiate a button
with an alloc and an init message.
If you double-click on a button's title
in Interface Builder and customize it,
for example, in this case,
we'll change it to OK,
Interface Builder is going to do
just the same thing that you would.
We're just going to call the
setTitle method of the push
button to change the title.
If you use Interface Builder's
inspectors to further customize
attributes of the objects you're
working with in Interface Builder,
for example,
to change a button to the default button
by changing its key equivalent to return,
we're going to do just the
same things that you would do.
We're going to call the
setKeyEquivalent method of the
button to change the key equivalent.
So in addition to the regular objects
that you work with in Interface Builder,
there's two proxy objects.
They're the top of all
of your Cocoa documents,
the files owner and the first responder.
And if you didn't understand them,
I'm going to explain to you
exactly what they're for right now.
Let's take a look at
them in closer detail.
The first object is the files owner,
and this object is critical
to understanding and using
Interface Builder effectively.
Every Nib file is going
to be loaded somehow,
well,
every Nib file that you're going to use.
And when it's loaded,
there's going to be an object that's
responsible for doing the loading,
and that object is the file's owner.
It's typically an instance of one
of your custom controller classes,
and by existing outside --
and by loading the Nib file,
it must exist outside of it,
so the instance that you see in
Interface Builder is actually a
placeholder or proxy for that object
that exists that loads the Nib file.
Nib files on Mac OS X are loaded with
the method NSBundle loadNibNameOptions.
On iPhone OS they're loaded
with the-- I'm sorry.
On Mac OS X,
nib files are loaded with the
NSBundle method loadNibNamedOwner,
and on iPhone OS,
they're loaded with the method
loadNibNamedOwnerOptions.
Two very similar methods.
They both take an owner property.
And when you load a nib file,
you specify the owner.
That object that you specify as the
owner is what the file's owner proxy
in Interface Builder represents.
And you'll use this to tie the objects
inside of your Interface Builder document
to all the objects that exist outside
of your Interface Builder document.
It's best to explain
this with an example.
When your application starts
life right after the user double
clicks on it in the finder,
there's just a single solitary
instance of NS application,
and it's just starting up.
And the first thing that it does
and David Koehn.
The first step is load the main nib file.
It invokes the NSBundle method,
load nib named, owner,
loads the main menu and
passes itself as the owner.
The nib file is loaded from disk and all
the objects from it are reinstantiated
And inside there,
there's a files owner proxy.
By virtue of the application passing
itself as the owner parameter
to the loadNibNamedOwner method,
the files owner proxy is
resolved to the application.
All the connections that you make
in Interface Builder that involve
the files owner are now going to
be made to the shared application.
So this is typically how you connect
things like your app delegate.
Once the Nib file is loaded,
it's not needed anymore,
and we're just left with the objects
that were instantiated from our Nib file.
Now, in this case,
we've got a main window and a main menu,
and we might do something in response
to some menu action or button click,
and it might cause us to want
to load a second Nib file.
If we were to do that, we might,
from our app delegate,
invoke something like NSBundle,
load nib name, secondary,
and pass the app delegate as the
owner of this secondary nib file.
If we did that, the nib would load,
the objects inside it
would be instantiated,
our file's owner proxy would be
resolved to our application delegate,
and we'd be able to have our connection
that we would have made in our nib file
from our file's owner to our second
window resolved to our app delegate.
So in this way,
the app delegate existing before the
nib was loaded is able to load the nib
file and refer to objects inside of it,
and connect those objects back
into the rest of our application.
After we've done this,
messages would be able to flow to and
from the objects from the secondary
nib to the rest of our application
by means of the file's owner.
So the file's owner is the
conceptual owner of the nib file,
and it's a conduit for all the
objects inside the nib file to send
messages in and out with the rest
of the objects in our application.
A second critical object to use
to master to use Interface Builder
effectively is the first responder.
What is the first responder?
The first responder represents
the object on a window that
first receives keyboard events.
It's also used as the target for
buttons and controls and menus
that don't have specific actions,
things you'd want to target
at all sorts of things.
Let's also take an
example to define that.
Here I have on the display a diagram
of maybe a simple chat application.
It has a list of buddies.
For example, maybe that's a table view.
It has a message text view that
might show the chat history that
I have with one of my particular
buddies and a composition text view
that I might use to type a message.
If the user were to click
into the message text view,
the message text view
would become active,
and it would be the first
responder in our window.
Well,
all responders have next responders,
and together the first responder
with its next responder and that next
responder's next responder form a chain.
In this case, our message text view would
be the first responder,
and its next responder
would be a scroll view,
followed by our Windows content view,
our window, our window controller,
and the responder chain would continue
through the rest of our application.
If at this point the user
were to use the Edit menu,
well, let's just think about
this for a little bit.
In the Edit menu, there's a Copy command.
And that Copy command can
do all kinds of things.
It can be targeted at every text
field in our application and
many objects besides text fields.
And if we were to try to connect
the Copy menu item ourself,
maybe to our application or app delegate,
it might get kind of complicated.
Like, where would we want to
send that copy message?
How would we perform copy?
We'd have to know about all sorts
of things in our application
to perform copy effectively.
So if you go inspect your main menu
and you look at the edit menu and
you find the copy command and you
bring up the connections panel like
Matt showed earlier in the demo,
you'll see that the copy menu item
is actually connected to the copy
action of the first responder.
This means that if the user
chooses copy from the edit menu,
a copy message is going to be
sent to the first responder,
in this case our message text view.
So if the user chooses copy,
a copy message is sent
to the first responder.
And in this situation,
everything's great.
Text views know all about copy.
They take their selected text,
they bottle it up,
and they put it on the paste
board and they make it available
for the user to paste later.
So the text view successfully handles
the copy message and we're done.
If later in the application's
life the user were to click
into our buddy's table view,
the first responder would change.
It would now be our buddy's table view.
And the responder change
-- the responder chain,
by virtue of its head changing,
would update to reflect that it
now starts with the buddy's table
view and continues on through the
buddy's table view's scroll view and
up through the rest of our window.
At this point,
the user might again go to the
Edit menu and choose the Copy command
to mean something like copy the email
address or instant messenger name
of the buddy they're working with.
and a copy message would again
be sent to the first responder.
In this case, though,
the first responder is a
totally different object.
It's our table view.
And we might have our table
view work together with its data
source in order to provide an
implementation of the copy message.
And this would allow the user to
perform copy in our application on
both the text view and the table
view without us having to have any
complicated dispatch logic to decide
what to do when the user presses copy.
Now we have this whole
responder chain now,
and so far we've only looked
at messages that target the
head of the responder chain.
What happens if the user were
to go to the file menu and
choose something like send file?
This is a common kind of action
that you might want to do in
instant messaging application.
Well, if our buddy's table view
was the first responder,
the send file message would be sent
to the head of the responder chain.
But buddy's table views probably
don't know much about sending files.
That's a pretty specific task and
you wouldn't want to handle that
sort of action in a table view.
So the buddies table view
would decline to handle the
message and the message would be
delegated up the responder chain.
The scroll view would get a
shot at the send file message,
but scroll views also aren't particularly
suited to handle sending files.
So this message would continue up the
responder chain to our content view,
then to our window,
and to finally our window controller.
Now, a window controller would be a
great place to handle this message.
The window controller would
have custom application logic.
It would know all about instant
messaging and it would understand that
sending files was a common action.
It would have an implementation
of the send file message and
would intercept this message and
perform the send file action,
perhaps by bringing down a sheet to ask
the user which file they'd like to send.
Now, a great thing about targeting this
menu item at the first responder
means that if our chat application
were to have multiple windows,
the send file action would always be sent
to the frontmost window and to the head
of the responder chain in that window,
and it would be able to travel
up to the window controller.
So exactly the right window controller
would always get to handle the message.
Also, it wouldn't matter which field was
currently active in that window.
It could be the message's text view,
or the composition text view,
or the Buddy's Table view.
In any case,
the send file command would propagate
all the way up to our window controller.
So the first responder is great for
avoiding complicated dispatch logic of
commands that come from menu items and
maybe buttons in your applications.
So far we've talked about, well,
the first responder doesn't
point to the specific instance,
doesn't have a specific class,
but often when you work
in Interface Builder,
either with the proxy objects or custom
objects that you've added yourself,
you're going to need to
work with specific classes.
And in order to do this,
you probably use Interface
Builder's identity inspector to
set the custom class of an object.
Just what does it mean when
you set the custom class of an
object in Interface Builder?
When you set the custom class of
an object in Interface Builder,
there's a promise going on
between you and Interface Builder.
It happens one of two ways.
With a regular object,
when you set the custom class,
Interface Builder makes a promise to you.
And it says,
when I instantiate this class at runtime,
I promise to make an instance
of the class you specified,
as opposed to the instance that
currently exists in Interface Builder.
When you set the custom
class of a proxy object,
like the file's owner
in Interface Builder,
you're making a promise
to Interface Builder.
You're saying, "Interface Builder,
when I load this NIM file and
you resolve this proxy object,
I promise it's going to be an instance
of the class name that I just typed in."
By doing this,
Interface Builder is able to
determine the class of the object
you're working with and present all
of the outlets and actions for you
to connect to your other objects.
So, that brings us to connections.
What does it mean when you control drag
or use the connections HUD to make a
connection in the interface builder?
Well, it's another promise.
Interface builder promises
to you that it will connect
these two objects at run time.
It doesn't make the connections just yet,
right?
Your file's owner is a proxy.
It doesn't have something
like a window outlet.
It won't have a window
outlet until run time.
So it records that these two
objects should be connected.
And at run time,
it'll do something similar to calling,
for example, if we connected a window
outlet of our file's owner or
our controller to our window,
we'll call the setWindow
method to connect them.
so how exactly are the
connections you make in Interface
Builder actually established?
Well,
there's three kinds of connections you'll
primarily work with in Interface Builder.
There's outlets, actions, and bindings.
Outlets are perhaps the most interesting.
When Interface Builder goes to establish
an outlet between two of your objects,
it will first look to see if
there's an appropriate setter
method that matches the outlet name.
For example,
if your outlet name was window,
it would look for a setWindow method,
or an Objective C2 named window.
And if such a method exists,
it would call it in order
to establish the outlet.
If no such method exists,
Interface Builder will look
to see if your object has an
instance variable named window.
And if it does, it will connect them.
If it doesn't have either of these,
then you've probably broken your
promise to Interface Builder that you
made when you set the custom class.
Actions and outlets, or I'm sorry,
actions are connected by just calling,
for example, in Cocoa, set target,
set action against the
NSController and NSCell,
or on Cocoa Touch using the
appropriate UI control method,
I believe it's add target
selector for event mask.
Bindings are established the same
way that you would with bind to
object with key path options.
So we make all the connections
just the same way that you would.
We just allow you to draw them up
in Interface Builder and we wire
them up when the Nib file is loaded.
So the next important piece of
information to understand is how
is a NIM file saved and loaded?
I mean, you make these objects
in Interface Builder,
but somehow they have to get to
disk and back into your application.
Well, we do this in Cocoa with a
protocol called NSCoding.
All the objects that you work with in
Interface Builder implement NSCoding.
NSCoding is a simple protocol.
An object called an NSCoder goes
and visits each of your objects
and allows them to either save
or load themselves to data.
So to implement saving,
all the objects implement
this encodeWithCoder method.
And they first call the super
implementation of encodeWithCoder to
give their super class an opportunity to
encode any of their interesting state.
And then they follow that call to super
by encoding their own interesting state,
in this case, a title.
So they would call against the coder,
encodeObject, title, for key.
And they might use title for the key.
Loading the objects
works much the same way.
The data file is loaded from disk,
an NSCoder is given the data and
reads through the data to find
the objects that it serialized.
And as it finds each one,
it instantiates the object and
sends it an init with coder message.
And then it's the object's -- the
object then has an opportunity
to decode all of its interesting
state back out of the archive.
So in this example,
we'll give our super class
a chance to init with coder.
And then we'll follow that by decoding
our own attributes from the coder.
Now,
this is really important if you go to
make your own interface builder plug-in.
If you go make your own
interface builder plug-in,
you'll need to implement both of
these methods on all the objects that
you integrate into interface builder.
So let's put all that together.
When you drag objects out of the library,
Interface Builder instantiates
them just the same way that you
would with alloc and init messages.
When you customize the objects,
either on IB's design surface by
dragging them around or resizing
them or using the inspectors,
we call all the same
setters that you would.
When you connect the objects,
Interface Builder simply records that the
two objects are connected and promises
to make the connections at runtime.
When it's time to save, Interface Builder
instantiates an NSCoder,
in this case a keyed archiver,
hands off all the objects
from the Nib file.
All the objects implement the encode with
coder to encode their interesting state,
and the data file is written to disk.
and when it comes time to load the file,
another coder is instantiated,
handed the data file,
it creates objects from the objects that
are described in the data file and all
those objects implement initWithCoder
to decode all their interesting state,
the same state that you can
figure in Interface Builder.
Then Interface Builder establishes all
the connections between the objects
by doing things like setting their
instance variables or calling their
setter methods and sends the awake
from nib message to all the objects.
So I just spent 15 minutes
telling you all about nib files.
But if you're working with
the latest set of Xcode tools,
you're probably working with ZIP files.
What's the difference?
Just what is a ZIP file?
A ZIP file is everything
that's in a nib file plus more,
and it's really optimized for
the development time experience.
It has all the runtime content,
so all the stuff that you
designed in Interface Builder.
and Kevin has design time content too.
For example, which windows were open,
which buttons were selected,
what custom user guides you had added,
things like that.
It's also diffable XML.
Works great with SCM systems.
In order to provide the
best design time experience,
we save a lot of
information in the nib file,
and we save it as this diffable XML,
which is very verbose.
It's kind of large.
When you ship your
applications to your users,
you don't want to ship large
Interface Builder files.
You want to ship small,
fast Interface Builder files.
And that's what Nib files are.
They're binary files that are
optimized by Interface Builder
and Xcode during your Xcode
build so that you can ship tiny,
small Interface Builder files
to your users to give them
the best performance possible.
So that covers how Nib files work.
Let's go ahead and move on and
look at some important differences
between Cocoa and Cocoa Touch.
Now, largely, when you use Cocoa or
Cocoa Touch for Mac OS standard
iPhone with Interface Builder,
everything is going to be the same.
There are just some small
minor differences that I'm
going to cover right now.
The first thing that you'll probably
notice if you use both platforms
is that there's different proxy
objects available on each of them.
On Mac OS X,
you're going to immediately notice
there's an extra proxy object
available at the top of every
single one of your nib files.
And that's the NSApplication instance.
This is a very simple proxy.
It just represents the shared application
that exists in every Cocoa object.
And when you load a nib file,
when you use a nib file with Interface
Builder and Cocoa on Mac OS X,
you can always refer to your shared
application from any of your nib
files by means of this shared proxy.
For Cocoa Touch,
we have a custom proxy object.
You can use this to represent any object
in your Interface Builder you'd like to.
You do this by going to the library
and finding the proxy object.
It's in the Objects and
Controllers section.
You can drag this to your interface.
And once you do that,
the next most important thing to
do is use the attributes inspector
to set an identifier for the proxy.
In this case,
I might call it My Controller ID.
That means I've got this proxy
object in Interface Builder.
It's not really a My Controller ID,
and it's not going to be
created when this nib is loaded.
What's going to happen is it's going
to refer to some object that was
created before this nib was loaded.
And at runtime,
we're going to do that by loading
the nib manually with NSBundle,
loadNibNamed, owner, options.
And we're going to pass in an interesting
dictionary as the options parameter.
The options dictionary is
a dictionary of options,
and in there is going to
be another dictionary,
this one that I'm specifying right here.
And it's going to be a
list of keys and values.
And the keys are going to be
the same IDs that you typed into
Interface Builder's attributes
inspectors for each of your proxies.
So here we have a key, my controller ID.
And the value is going to be some
object that you would like that
proxy instance to resolve to.
We're going to wrap that in the
options dictionary that we're handing
to the NSBundle nib loading method.
And we're going to use the
key UIDnibProxiedObjectsKey.
Once we do that,
we can load the bundle -- or I'm sorry,
we can load the nib by way of the bundle
and pass our options dictionary that
we've created as the last parameter.
This will allow Interface Builder
to resolve that custom object
that you designed to a proxy
object you were specifying that
is just outside of your nib file.
If you find yourself wanting to
connect to some parent controller,
this is a good way to do it.
An important difference between
Cocoa and Cocoa Touch is the
retention of the top level objects.
If you load a nib file manually on
Mac OS X with the NSBundle loadNibNamed
owner method or one of the NSNib methods,
you're responsible for sending a release
message to each of the top level objects.
This isn't the case for Cocoa Touch.
We made things a little simpler.
On Cocoa Touch, all the top level objects
are auto released.
So you don't have to send a release
message to something you didn't
specifically send a retain message to.
This also means that in order
to keep these objects around,
you'll want to retain them explicitly.
This is nicely balanced by
something I'm going to show
you in a slide just coming up.
Outlets.
How are outlets established
on the two platforms?
By and large,
they're established the same way.
We look to see if there's an appropriate
setter method or Objective C2 property,
and if there is, we invoke it in order
to establish the outlet.
But if no such setter or property exists,
on both platforms we will end up
looking for an instance variable with
a matching name and set that directly.
Now, the difference is, well,
on Mac OS X,
we have a technology and we have it
on iPhone OS that we really love,
and it's key value coding.
And we've been using it a lot lately.
It's really handy,
and if it isn't something
you're familiar with,
you should look into it,
because it makes all sorts of dynacism
really easy in your application.
So on Mac OS X,
when we establish those outlets,
we do it manually.
We look for a setter by using
Objective-C runtime methods,
and we look for an instance variable
by using Objective-C runtime methods.
You could use those methods, too.
They're nothing private.
But we prefer to use set value for key,
because that's what a lot
of our developers expect,
and that's what we use on iPhone OS.
And there's one important
difference between the two methods,
either manual or set value for key.
And that's when you don't have a setter.
On Mac OS X, if you don't have a setter,
when instance variable, I'm sorry,
when Interface Builder connects
one of your instance variables,
it's an outlet, it won't be retained.
On iPhone OS, it is retained.
That's the default behavior
of set value for key.
So on iPhone OS, that nicely balances the
fact that top level objects
aren't owed a release message.
You can simply just have an outlet to
each of your objects to retain them.
The best practice here is on both
platforms to always provide a setter
method or Objective-C2 property.
That means the decision of
whether to retain or not is
always in your control and will
be obvious from your source code.
A second small difference between the two
platforms is the awake from Nib message.
On Mac OS X,
every object represented in the Nib file
with the exception of the application,
even including the file's owner,
is going to get that
awake from Nib message.
Now, you may have noticed this means that
sometimes the awake from Nib message
can be sent to an object more than once.
Not more than once per
Nib file that's loaded,
but more than once during
the lifetime of the object.
So if an object participates
in Nib loading multiple times,
for example,
by being loaded from a Nib and then
turning around and loading a second
Nib by being the file's owner,
it would receive the awake
from Nib message twice.
This might kind of catch you off guard.
You have to be prepared
for that on Mac OS X.
We've simplified this on iPhone OS.
On iPhone OS,
every object is only going to get
the awake from Nib message once.
And we treat it as a real initializer.
You can call through to super.
The method is implemented on NSObject.
You should call through to super.
This allows you to easily,
if you have kind of deep class
hierarchies in your application
and you're loading some of those
objects from Nib files and you want
to perform a wake from Nib on both
your class and your super class,
it makes it obvious when
to call through to super,
always on an iPhone OS.
Now the takeaway point here is that
the frameworks always provide specific
over alternatives to Awake from Nib for
objects that behave as the file's owner.
And you should use those.
So for Cocoa,
an example would be NSWindowController,
which provides a method windowDidLoad.
If you're using a window controller
and that window controller is
loading a nib on your behalf,
you can easily move your code from
await from nib into windowDidLoad.
And that'll prevent any sort
of accidental double call
to await from nib for you.
And if you're using Cocoa Touch,
you can use UIView controller's
viewDidLoad method to react to your
view being loaded from a nib file.
This is preferred in both cases to using
the await from nib with the file's owner.
If you're loading a nib file
manually with one of the NSBundle or
NSNib nib loading methods,
you can simply just do your code right
after invoking the nib loading method.
That's equivalent to doing it within
an await from nib on a file's owner.
That covers all the differences
for Cocoa and Cocoa Touch when
working with Interface Builder.
So I hope you'll see that while using
Interface Builder for both platforms,
by and large,
you'll have exactly the same experience.
And everything you learn on
one platform will directly
transition to the other platform.
Right now, I'm going to turn it over to
Kevin Cathey so he can tell you
about everything we've learned today.
Thanks, Jon.
So I'm Kevin,
another Interface Builder engineer.
What I would like to focus on
for the rest of the session is
how we can use some of the things
that Matt and Jon showed us to
improve our existing applications.
Now, in particular,
what I'm going to be doing is
I'm going to be improving the
image editor application that
Matt was showing to us earlier.
And the item that I want to improve
in this application has to do
with when we instantiate objects.
So, let me explain.
As Jon was mentioning,
when your application launches,
your main menu nib file is
unarchived and all of the
objects in it are instantiated.
All of them.
So the problem comes when you
have a bunch of top level objects
in your main menu nib file
that you don't need right away.
And so when your application launches,
you're taking time and memory to bring
those guys into your application.
In the case of our image
editor application,
as you can see on screen,
we have a bunch of filters
you can apply to our images.
And for each filter,
we have a sheet and a controller
object for that filter.
Right now,
all of these objects are sitting
in our main menu nib file,
so that when our application launches,
every single one of those objects for our
filters have to be brought into memory.
But what happens if someone never wants
to adjust the brightness of their image?
Well, the objects for that particular
filter are just taking up space.
So here's kind of the takeaway point
that I'm going to give early on,
and that's the goal in all this is that
we want to wait to instantiate objects
until the user really needs them.
Now, you might also have heard this as
being called lazy initialization.
This is one of the things that I love
about being a software engineer.
We get applauded for being lazy.
That's awesome.
So in the case of our
image editor application,
what we're going to be doing is
we're going to be pulling apart
some of the pieces of our nib file.
And you might ask the question, well,
how do we do this?
The process is threefold.
The first thing we need to do
is create separate nib files
for each set of objects that
we want to lazily initialize.
Now, once we have this nib file,
we want to pull it into memory.
And to do this, we're going to be writing
a little bit of code.
Now,
since we've initialized some objects,
we need to make sure that
we clean up after ourselves.
And I'm going to be showing you
using the policies that John was
explaining to us just a little bit ago.
So let's go ahead and go
over to the demo machine,
and I'm going to show you how to do this.
All right.
Now for those of you who might have
come in just a little bit late or
maybe you haven't had enough coffee,
I know that's often the
case with me in the morning,
I'm going to review
the application for us.
We have our main Canvas window here.
It's got an image.
We can adjust the attributes of
this image by bringing down these
different sheets for our filter.
What I'm going to focus on for this demo
is how to lazily initialize the objects
needed for the brightness controller.
However, the process is just the same for
the hue controller and other filters
you might add to this application.
So to do this, let's go ahead and go to
Interface Builder and start off.
Here are the two objects that I was
just mentioning that we're going to
need to pull apart from our nib file.
We have our brightness controller
and our brightness sheet.
So, step one, create a new nib file.
So, we go under File, New,
and I'm going to create
an empty Cocoa nib file.
Now getting these objects over
to this new nib file is as
simple as dragging and dropping.
[Transcript missing]
and as you can see if I click on the
end points for these connections,
they all go back to our brightness sheet.
Awesome.
Now before I get any farther,
I want to save my file.
And I'm going to save this into
the same place as our other file,
our main menu, and I'm going to call
it Brightness Sheet.
Let's go ahead and save that.
and now Interface Builder is
prompting us and asking us,
hey, do you want to add this
file to your Xcode project?
You bet we do.
So let's add it.
So here comes the first little
tricky part of this thing,
and that has to do with the files owner.
As Jon was mentioning,
there are those three different proxy
or represented objects we need to know
about when working with Nib files.
The files owner, the first responder,
and the application.
Recall that the files owner is the object
that is put in charge of your nib file,
kind of like a babysitter
over a group of kids.
Just as when you're
choosing a babysitter,
you want to make sure that you
choose the right babysitter,
one that makes sense for the job.
In our main menu nib file,
we have this image editor
controller which controls
the logic of our application.
We want this to be the
babysitter for our new nib file.
How do we point the instance of
this image editor controller over
to the file's owner of another file?
Since the files owner is a proxy object,
all we need to do right now is
tell Interface Builder the files
owner is going to be of this class.
When we instantiate that file and code,
we'll actually provide the actual
instance that we're going to need.
So to set the custom
class for the files owner,
go to tools and the identity inspector.
And I'm just going to type
in my image editor controller
and it will fill it in for me.
And now files owner knows about
the outlets and actions that the
image editor controller can have.
Thank you.
So the next step that we need to do is
we need to connect up our files owner
back to our brightness controller.
And some of you might be
scratching your heads going,
but Kevin, I thought that you said that
connections persist as we drag
objects over to new files.
That's totally true.
However, remember,
we didn't actually drag the
instance of the image editor
controller over to this new file.
We're just saying the proxy object or the
files owner is going to be of that type.
So we need to reconnect them.
Now, to make sure I don't miss
any of the connections,
I'm going to go back to my main menu
nib file and bring up the connections
display for the brightness controller
to make sure I get all the right ones.
So right now I'm looking for any
connections between the image editor
controller and the brightness controller.
And to do that,
I'm going to be using the reverse
outlets and the outlets sections
of the connections display.
So right away, one jumps out at me.
Okay, editor controller.
And that certainly goes to
our image editor controller.
If I scroll down to the
other ones of these,
that's not it.
That's not it.
Ah, there's one more at the bottom here.
So there's two outlets
that we need to reconnect.
So let's go back to our
new nib file and do that.
When doing this,
I'm going to take advantage of the
control drag and connection feature.
If you hold down the control key
and drag from one object to another,
you can connect things really quickly.
In this case, it's saying,
"Do you want to connect the outlet
brightness controller?" Certainly I do.
And I can do the same thing
in the reverse direction.
Hold down the control key,
drag into FileZoner,
and connect into Editor Controller.
And now, our FileZoner and our brightness
controller are now back in sync.
and step one is just about done.
We've created a new file,
dragged the objects in,
set the file's owner.
And the next thing we get
to do is the fun part.
We get to delete the original
brightness controller and
brightness sheet from our old file.
And now it's two less objects
that our application has to
worry about when launching.
So let's save both of these.
So step one of the process
is now completely complete.
And what we want to do now is
write a little bit of code to
bring this file into memory.
When the user selects the
Adjust Brightness toolbar item,
as I see in my window up here,
I want this new file to launch and the
sheet to come down just as it had before.
If I bring up the connections display
again on my image editor controller,
I see there's this
adjust brightness action.
And this is where I want
to instantiate this object.
I can use the command double
click that Matt was showing to us
earlier to jump to the source code
for the image editor controller.
Now, also as Matt mentioned,
what's great about this feature
is that it also works in Xcode.
So we can do the same command double
click to open up the implementation
for the adjust brightness method.
and now here we are.
So now we actually have to write
our code to instantiate this file.
There are a couple ways to do this and
I'm gonna highlight two of them and then
we're gonna actually do one of them.
As Jon mentioned,
one of the ways that it's
typically done is using NSBundle.
Now he also said that all top
level objects in a nib file on
Mac OS X are owed a release message.
So some way we need to get to
all those top level objects and
send them a release message.
There's another class called NSNib
which provides a convenience method
for us to get those top level objects,
send them a release message so that
we don't have to go scouring through
other parts of our nib to do so.
So that's the particular class that
I'm gonna be using for this demo.
Part of lazy instantiation
is that we don't instantiate
our objects until we need to.
And we don't want to instantiate
them if they're already there.
So we want to instantiate
them when they're nil.
So that's the first part.
If our brightness controller
hasn't been created yet,
let's go ahead and load that nib file.
Now, creating the code for this
is about a four-step process.
The first step is actually creating the
instance of the NSNib class that we need.
You can think of NSNib as kind
of like a nib file loader.
It just brings in data for that nib file,
but doesn't actually put the objects
in the nib file into memory quite yet.
So as you can see here,
I'm just initializing a nib instance
and pointing it to the brightness
sheet nib file that we created earlier.
And I'm doing it in the
main application bundle.
The second step is to actually
bring the objects into memory.
And this can be tricky,
so let's go through this.
On the nib instance that I created,
I'm going to call
instantiate nib with owner,
and here's where I specify
the actual instance of the
file's owner that we wanted.
Remember that we set the class
in Interface Builder to the
My Image Editor Controller,
and now we're providing that
actual instance right here.
Now the second argument might
throw you off a little bit.
So let's talk about this.
This is where we get the top level
objects that are in our nib file.
What's happening is when we
instantiate this NSNib instance,
the NSNib class, our instance,
is creating an array for us and
populating it with the top level
objects and sending it back to us.
So that's why I'm passing in a
reference to an NSArray that,
again, the instance will fill in for us.
The next part, of course,
is to send all of these
objects a release message.
All the top level objects
a release message.
Some of you who are familiar with memory
management on OS X might be wondering,
wow, why are we sending them a
release message right away?
Won't this make all
these objects go away?
Right now our objects
are owned by two things.
First of all,
it's the implicit loading for Mac OS X,
so all top level objects
are owed a release message.
And secondly, they're owned by the array.
If you release it,
if we send them all a release message,
right now they're only
owned by the array,
so they're auto released.
We get the same behavior as
you would have on iPhone OS.
and David . Now if you add
outlets for these particular
objects in our top level,
you will also get an additional
retain count if you happen
to retain those objects.
But that's all going to be
handled by our properties.
For now,
it's very safe and encouraged to do it,
to send all those objects a
release message right here.
The final step of this is that
we no longer need our nib loader.
That's brought our objects into memory.
We can get rid of that.
We send it a release message.
So, a lot of code.
Let's step through it one more time
just to make sure you understand it.
First, we created our NS nib instance.
This loads the data for
a nib file up for us.
Secondly,
we instantiated the objects in that
nib file by taking them out of the
nib file and putting them into memory.
And then we got an array back
of all the top level objects.
Now, since all these top level objects
deserve a release message,
we're providing that for them.
And finally, since we don't need our
nib loader any longer,
we can safely release it.
So now we've completed,
hopefully successfully completed,
the final two steps of our process.
We've initiated our nib file and code,
and then finally we've
cleaned up any resources.
So let's run this and see how this works.
Let's go build and go.
When I click on this,
it brings down the brightness
sheet just as before.
I can still edit all the attributes.
But instead of our application having
to spend time to bring into memory all
the objects for the brightness sheet,
we've done it when the user needs it.
We have a faster launching application.
We're using memory more efficiently.
And our development environment
is now more logically organized.
So let's go back to slides.
Can we go back to slides possibly?
Awesome.
Thank you.
All right.
So let's review again one more
time what we've done in this demo.
We've optimized the launch time of
our application by lazily initializing
objects that we don't need right away.
And again, to do that,
it's a three-step process.
You create your nib file,
you instantiate it in code, and finally,
you clean up any resources that you need.
So I've completed my part of the session
and let's take one more grand tour of
all the things that we've seen today.
First, Matt gave us kind of some tips
and tricks for being a power
user of Interface Builder.
Now secondly,
Jon took us on kind of a behind
the scenes tour of how nib files
work and some of the differences
between Cocoa and Cocoa Touch.
And finally, we took all those pieces,
put them together,
used some of the new features of
Interface Builder to lazily initialize
some of the objects in our application.
If you have any questions
about Interface Builder,
about this session,
about our developer tools in general,
we encourage you to
contact Michael Jurwitz,
our developer tools evangelist.
If you need direct access and quick
access to Interface Builder help,
we have some great documentation
which is available from right
within Interface Builder.
To access that,
just go to the Help menu and
go to Interface Builder Help.
We didn't have a session on it this year,
but for those who are
interested in writing their own
plugins for Interface Builder,
there's also great
documentation for that as well.
So we encourage you to check that out
as well on either the ADC website or the
documentation included with Xcode Tools.
If this session piqued your
interest about Interface Builder,
you can go to the Mastering iPhone
View Controller session to see how
you might use Interface Builder to
create view controllers for the iPhone.
That's in Presidio today at 2:00 p.m.
If you want some more hands-on
help with Interface Builder,
maybe directly with some of the
projects that you're working with,
there are a number of labs you can go to.
For those interested in some of the
advanced parts of Cocoa Bindings,
come to the Advanced Cocoa Bindings Lab.
And for those that need help with
the tools or their own applications,
there are two developer labs, one today,
one tomorrow.